---
title: "Continuous aridification since the mid-Holocene as the main cause of C<sub>3</sub>/C<sub>4</sub> dynamics in the grasslands of northeastern China"
collection: publications
permalink: #/publication/Paper_2021a
excerpt: ([https://doi.org/10.1111/ejss.12960]( https://doi.org/10.1111/ejss.12960))
date: 2021-01-04
venue: 'European Journal of Soil Science'
paperurl: 'http://linannan719.github.io/files/Paper_2021a.pdf'
citation: #'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
---

**Abstract**&emsp;Ecological responses to past climate change as determined from palaeorecords offer insights into responses that may accompany future climate change. In arid and semi-arid lands, the interactions between regional vegetation and climate change are not yet well understood, partly due to a lack of suitable palaeovegetation proxies that can provide accurate and continuous tracers for past vegetation dynamics. To gain a better understanding of long-term vegetation dynamics, this study employs a multiproxy approach applied to sand-palaeosol sediments of northeastern China's Songnen grasslands. Phytolith analyses and data on the stable carbon isotope composition (δ<sup>13</sup>C) of organic matter are used to reconstruct palaeovegetation composition, namely, the changing abundance of C3 and C4 species, whereas a geochemical weathering index (Fed/Fet ratios) tracks past East Asian summer monsoon (EASM) intensity. The phytolith assemblages and indices and δ<sup>13</sup>C of the soil indicate that C4 species' abundance has been increasing in the Songnen grasslands since the mid-Holocene, although C3 vegetation is still dominant. Statistically significant negative correlations between the δ<sup>13</sup>C data and Fet/Fed ratios suggest that continuous weakening of the EASM since the mid-Holocene may be responsible for the <sup>13</sup>C-enrichment of the sediments in the Songnen grasslands. Field vegetation surveys, modern topsoil phytoliths and δ<sup>13</sup>C calibration data indicate that the expansion of C4 species since the mid-Holocene is mainly due to their ability to cope with aridity when growing season temperature is not undergoing a significant decrease. Future precipitation decreases in arid and semi-arid lands should make C4 species more competitive in the grasslands of northeastern China.
