---
title: "Diatom evidence for mid-Holocene peatland water-table variations and their possible link to solar forcing"
collection: publications
permalink: #/publication/Paper_2020b
excerpt: ([https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.138272](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.138272))
date: 2020-07-10
venue: 'Science of The Total Environment'
paperurl: 'http://linannan719.github.io/files/Paper_2020b.pdf'
citation: #'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
---
**Abstract**&emsp;Peatlands located at the northern edge of the East Asian monsoon (EAM) are well placed to provide a terrestrial record of past climate and hydrological changes for this globally sensitive region. Here we present a middle to late Holocene, diatom-derived water-table records from a peatland in the Greater Hinggan Mountains, northeastern China. An age-depth model was achieved through AMS<sup>14</sup>C dating and Bayesian piece-wise linear accumulation modelling. The diatom-based water-table reconstructions show that the peatland water-table rose from 5100 to 3500 cal. yr BP, but fell approximately 3500 cal. yr BP. From about 2800 to 1500 cal. yr BP, the peatland water-table stabilized. After about 1500 cal. yr BP, several rapid hydrological shifts, which correspond with global climate anomalies such as ice-rafted debris (IRD) events, were registered in the reconstructed water-tables. Compared with other paleoclimate records in East Asia, the general trend of peatland water-table fluctuations follows the variations in the East Asian summer monsoon (EASM) intensity. Spectrum analysis of the water-table profile yielded a statistically significant periodicity of 470-year that may be related to the “~500-year” inherent solar irradiation cycles. In addition, positive correlation between the peatland water-table levels and cosmic-isotope-reconstructed sunspot numbers underscores the role of the sun in regulating hydrological processes in the EASM margin area. The data suggest that the regional climate and hydrological variations at the EASM margin were first triggered by changes in solar output, but may have been amplified by interactions with oceanic and atmospheric circulations.
